Daml intro (#1717)
digital-asset/daml: docs/source/daml/intro/4_Transformations.rst

.. literalinclude:: daml/daml-intro-4/Contact.daml
  :language: daml
  :start-after: -- DELEGATION_BEGIN
  :end-before: -- DELEGATION_END

.. literalinclude:: daml/daml-intro-4/Contact.daml
  :language: daml
  :start-after: -- DELEGATION_TEST_BEGIN
  :end-before: -- DELEGATION_TEST_END

If you open the scenario view in the IDE, you will notice that Bob sees the ``Contact``. Controllers specified via ``controller c can`` syntax become *observers* of the contract. More on *observers* later, but in short, they get to see any changes to the contract.

.. _choices:

Choices in the Ledger Model
---------------------------

In :doc:`1_Token` you learned about the high-level structure of a DAML ledger. With choices and the `exercise` function, you have the next important ingredient to understand the structure of the ledger and transactions. A *transaction* is a list of *actions*, and there are just three kinds of action: ``create``, ``exercise`` and ``fetch``. All actions are performed on a contract.

> - A ``create`` action contains the contract arguments and changes the contract's status from *inexistent* to *active*.

Author: ```suggestion
- A ``create`` action contains the contract arguments and changes the contract's status from *non-existent* to *active*.
```

- A ``fetch`` action  checks the existence and activeness of a contract
- An ``exercise`` action contains the choice arguments and a transaction called the *consequences*. Exercises come in two *kinds* called ``consuming`` and ``nonconsuming``. ``consuming`` is the default kind and changes the contract's status from *active* to *archived*.

> The consequences of exercise nodes turn each transaction into an ordered tree of (sub-) transactions, or, equivalently, a forest of actions. Actions are in one-to-one correspondence with proper sub-transactions.

Author: I think it's important the readers understand the relationship between actions and transactions. This deserves a visualization, though.
